# Automate your IBM i tasks with Ansible

Ansible is a radically simple IT automation system. It handles configuration management, application deployment, cloud provisioning, ad-hoc task execution, network automation, and multi-node orchestration. IBM i is an operating system that has thousands of core workloads running for different industries worldwide. More and more IBM i customers plan or have already started the journey of automating tasks and moving workloads into cloud environment. Traditional IBM i MSPs and ISVs are also looking for better solutions to improve the efficiency of system and application management. Ansible for IBM i can fit most of the tasks and cloud automation requirements for IBM i customers. 

There are several cases that IBM i customers or ISVs can take advantage of Ansible:
1. Automate traditional IBM i administration tasks, such as PTF management, system and application configuration, application deployment and installation, etc. These tasks are very common and are repeatedly executed in users’ environment. Thus, automate such tasks and processes can highly improve the system management efficiency. 
2. Improve application development process and efficiency to shorten software delivery cycle. Continuous integration and continuous delivery are mentioned more and more by IBM i customers, who highly need tools to bring RPG written PGMs and object based applications into CI/CD world. 
3. Manage multiple IBM i systems with interactive command lines. A single place to manage all the Linux (or other platforms) and IBM i partitions together becomes more and more important for MSPs and cloud users. There are many cases that IT environments and solutions are built upon many different systems so that the central management of these systems is very important. Ansible supports different platforms and the workflow could be managed all by playbook written in YAML. With playbook, complex IT environment can be managed from a single place. 
4. Automate IBM i tasks with reusable playbooks. There are several cases that existing playbooks can be reused for IBM i customers. For example, for the tasks dealing with open source software in PASE, playbooks written for AIX platform may be reused with little modifications in some situations. 
5. Ansible is already being operated by a certain group. And the operator with no IBM i skills wants to do basic management works of IBM i via Ansible. Ansible developers also can use IBM i modules to complete their playbook writing even if they may not have enough IBM i skills. 

# Introduce IBM i modules of Ansible
The support of Ansible for IBM i focuses on the module functions. In this case, the Ansible engine needs to be installed on Linux servers and IBM i systems are managed as endpoints. Some of the Ansible core modules can work with IBM i PASE environment very well already. For example, copy and fetch modules of Ansible can be used to copy and fetch stream files to and from IBM i systems. Ansible module ‘command’ can also be used to execute PASE commands. However, for most of IBM i customers , the native IBM i environment, which is object based and managed by CL commands, running COBOL and RPG programs, is much more important. Previously, there was no module written for IBM i native environment. IBM started to provide IBM i modules from 2020, 1H. These modules can be found from GitHub  https://github.ibm.com/IBMi-Cloud/ansible-for-i/ . Although now these Ansible modules are still in BETA version, you can start to try them out for your early testing or proof of concept. The GA version of IBM i modules will come out in the coming months. Moreover, this repository supports Ansible Tower so that the modules, plug-ins and playbooks can be directly loaded to Ansible Tower through the GUI. There will be an example in later sections of this article.

The following table lists the current IBM i modules in the GitHub repository. More modules will be added throughout this year. 
